Hello and welcome back to intro Today it's nice.
And today we're talking about the data science process.
So let's have a look.
First of all why is it important for us to look into the data process.
Well at this stage it is important to take a step back and have a bigger picture view of what is going
on in the space of data science or how it all fits in to the end to end process when you do.
So basically what this whole concept is there is science process describes is that in any data science
project there will be phases there'll be steps that you perform or stages of that that process all of
that project's lifecycle.
And if you understand these phases Well if you understand what they're all about then all of the different
components of data science whether it's attestations or zation machine learning all of these will fit
in very well into this process and you understand why exactly you need to learn them.
And also at which point in time to apply.
So let's go through this process step by step.
The first step is very important and it's often missed by the scientists and even by resources you'll
find online.
They often don't mention and that person even made the same mistake for a long time until a certain
stage in my career.
So the first step is called identify the question.
This is the stage where you need to spend some time to consciously go and talk to stakeholders of your
project and ask them what exactly do they want from this project what exactly are they after what other
questions they're trying to answer and what are the questions they're not trying to answer.
And at the end of the day you need to get their agreement to the scope of the project in writing in
order to safeguard yourself from scope creep down the line if you commit to a certain project you don't
want that project to explode to 10 tons of size just because people want more and more and more answers
and more insights.
And that's why this step is very important first of all to identify the question so you know exactly
what you're looking for rather than just diving straight into it into the data without having an idea
of what you're after.
And at the same time you want others to agree to that to that scope.
And also I get to point out how long approximately I think these stages should take.
And that's mostly based on my experience and experience of other data scientists.
So if you're doing a science project and two and then this first stage I identify the question should
probably take about 10 percent of your time.
Next is another important stage which is called prepare the data.
You need to take the data get it from wherever it is stored.
Ask the client if you're working as a consultant or find it internally and talk to the right person
in the right department get it clean it prepared for analysis check that it's complete.
Look for anomalies fix them and then of course do some Q&A for the data and this part of the design
process is actually one of the toughest parts and one of the most tedious and some days I really don't
enjoy going through these steps but at the same time they're very necessary and it takes up 70 percent
of the data science project.
That's why for instance knowing how to work with databases is an important very important skill and
also statistics is important because you can look at the distributions of your data and then you know
how to deal with anomalies and things like that so data preparation is very important.
Also visual data mining can help you out here as well.
So that's the first two stages.
Next stage is called analyze the data.
This is the fun stuff.
This is where you get to apply machine learning.
Again you can apply visual data mining you build models you run takes and lyrics and lots of other really
cool and fun things.
And the best part is if you've done the data preparation well and you don't have to go back and fix
the data all the time if everything is set in the first two stages and you know what you're looking
for you've identified the question then analyzing data shouldn't take that long either takes about another
10 percent of your time.
So funnily enough you know what the whole hype of data science is about the animal and the analytics
part is actually only 10 percent of the time you spend there.
That number might vary some might give it up to 20 or more.
But again if you've done everything before correctly this should be a piece of cake.
It should be very very quick compared to the data at the site.
But at the same time much more fun.
Next stage is visualizing the data.
And that is another very important part.
One thing is to find the inside.
Another thing is to present the insights in a more friendly way and a more approachable way for anybody
that's where viz. skills come into play.
This is a different type of isolation from the ones that we've mentioned before so you have visualisation
for data mining which is helpful with stages 2 and 3 where you're exploring the data you're trying to
get inside this type of zation Part 4 is the visualization where you actually did build the image or
the dashboard or the storyline and things like that.
So in order to communicate in size.
And this takes how much time.
Well it takes about another 10 percent of the time.
And so by now you're probably wondering if you've been following along.
We've already taken up this 10 plus 70 plus 10 plus then we've taken up all 100 percent of the time
where is where we're going to find more time for the last part and last part for Thurso's fight or what
it's called.
It's called present your findings.
This is the part where you need to communicate your results to your audience to communicate your results
to the stakeholders the CEO the manager the board of directors the customers their clients whoever you
are whoever was the person that asked you or the team that asked you to work on this you need to explain
the insides and what they mean what actions they might imply or where they might recommend for the business
what actions those insights might recommend for the business.
You need to explain that and need to explain in a very approachable manner and in a way to quote Our
mission as a science.
You need to make the complex simple for them and you know it might look like this takes up 0 percent
of the time.
No it actually takes up 80 percent of the time.
Another 80 percent went like this is a very representative diagram in terms of percentage of time.
Very representative in the sense that how they decide to think about it they think OK I'll get the project
done everything's finished.
I visualize the data.
OK.
Hundred percent of the work.
And that's where the 80 percent unexpectedly creeps up and I actually had a podcast on the superintends
Science Show with ya'll ton think it was Episode 10.
He was a very dear colleague of mine back in the day and I considered him my mentor when we work together
and we actually discussed this.
And since then I call this phenomenon the 80 20 80 rule of Jau.
The reason for that is that the first two parts these two parts they take up 80 percent then these two
parts.
The preparation basically takes up 80 percent the analysis and the position takes 20 percent.
And that's what usually data scientists refer to when they say 80:20 that this takes 80 percent this
takes 20.
But if you take into account how long it takes to present your findings that's an additional 80 percent
that you were not expecting to spend so budget that it's all over long this part will take you an extra
80 percent.
You need to spend on figuring out how to communicate your insides and then actually communicating them
and following through with helping people follow through with all your findings and implementing them.
So there you go that's the lifecycle of a science project or otherwise known as the data science process.
You might find different versions of this on line.
This version is our version.
What we've come to over the years of experience in dealing with data science again knowing this will
help you keep the bigger picture in mind and understand where all the other components of the designs
will fit in.
I hope you enjoy Teresa Tauriel and I look forward to seeing them.
Until then enjoy their designs.